
Extract the following fields from the document text provided and format the response as valid JSON:
- "Document_date" in the format '3 letter month name-DD, YYYY'.
- "Document_summary" limited to a maximum of 3 sentences, tailored for a solar M&A analyst. It should state what kind of document it is, but also what its implicatoins are or what state it is in. It should assume the analyst knows about the M&A process.
- "Suggested_title" in the format 'MM-DD-YYYY max 5 word document title'. Try your best to come up with a title that is useful if you quickly want to understand what kind of document it is
- "Suggested_title_v2" in same format as "suggested title" but with different wording
- "Suggested_title_v3" in same format as "suggested title" but with different wording
- "Document_folder_path", Choose the the folder that makes most sense from the folders below. You should specify the path to the folder from the top level folder in the format "project/sub_folder...". If you really cant find a folder that fits, put it in "project/Unclassified". Dont make up any new folders.
- project
  - Environmental
  - EPC
  - Interconnection
  - Permitting
  - PPA
  - Unclassified


The provided document text is:
BEFORE THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF HAWArI In the Matter of the Application of ) HAWAnAN ELECTRIC COMPANY, INC. ) Docket No.
2011-0051
For approval of Power Purchase Agreement with ) Kalaeloa Solar Two, LLC, and Determination ) that Hawaiian Electric-Owned Interconnection ) Facilities be Constructed Above the Surface of ) the Ground Pursuant to HRS 269-27.6(a).
Oe or HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC APPLICATION IE I -C EXHIBITS 1 THROUGH 9
2P 0-
Z 2
VERIFICATION r.,1
C r.
hi&11
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE Shah J. Bento, Esq.
Law Office of Shah J. Bento, LLLC P.O. Box 4110
Honolulu, Hawai'i 96812
Telephone: (808) 590-2161
Attorney for Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc.
BEFORE THE PUBLIC UTILTrIES COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF HAWATI In the Matter of the Application of ) HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC COMPANY, INC. ) Docket No.
2011-0051
For approval of Power Purchase Agreement with ) Kalaeloa Solar Two, LLC, and Determination ) that Hawaiian Electric-Owned Interconnection ) Facilities be Constructed Above the Surface of ) the Ground Pursuant to HRS 269-27.6(a). ) HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC APPLICATION EXHIBITS 1 THROUGH 9
VERIFICATION 0 (0
or 18
I -C 52 =!
*3
. r.
r-Tl CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE Shah J. Bento, Esq.
Law Office of Shah J. Bento, LLLC P.O. Box 4110
Honolulu, Hawai' i 96812
Telephone: (808) 590-2161
Attorney for Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc.
.
F- 1 1
--
BEFORE THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF HAWAI I In the Matter of the Application of ) HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC COMPANY, INC. ) Docket No.
For approval of Power Purchase Agreement with ) Kalaeloa Solar Two, LLC, and Determination ) that Hawaiian Electric-Owned Interconnection ) Facilities be Constructed Above the Surface of ) the Ground Pursuant to HRS 269-27.6(a). ) APPLICATION TO THE HONORABLE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF HAWAII:
HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC COMPANY, INC. ("Hawaiian Electric") shows unto this Honorable Commission as follows:
I. INTRODUCTION A. REQUESTED APPROVAL ORDER Hawaiian Electric respectfully requests that the Commission: (1) approve the Power Purchase Agreement ("PPA") for As-Available Energy dated February 18,2011 by and between Hawaiian Electric and Kalaeloa Solar Two, LLC ("Kalaeloa Solar") a copy ofwhich is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 1 ; (2) authorize Hawaiian Electric to include the purchased energy charges (and related revenue taxes) that Hawaiian Electric incurs under the PPA in and through Hawaiian Electric's Energy Cost Adjustment Clause ("ECAC") to the extent not included in base rates; (3) find that the purchased energy charges to be paid by Hawaiian Electric are reasonable; (4) find that Hawaiian Electric's purchased power arrangements under the PPA, pursuant to which Hawaiian Electric purchases energy on an as-
1
available basis from Kalaeloa Solar, are prudent and in the public interest; (5) determine that the 46 kV line extension included as part of Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities, as described herein, should be constructed above the surface of the ground; and (6) grant such other and further relief as may be just and reasonable in the premises.
B. KALAELOA SOLAR'S PROPOSED PHOTOVOLTAIC ENERGY FACILITY 1. Photovoltaic Energy Facility Location The proposed Facility will be located at Kalaeloa, Ewa District, Kapolei, Oahu, State of Hawaii, as further described in Appendix A o f the PPA. The approximate location of the Facility is shown on the map attached to this Application as Exhibit 5. The Kalaeloa project site is located at TMK No. (1) 9-1-13:28 and 38 / Kalaeloa, Oahu.
2. Guaranteed Commercial Operations Date ("GCOD") Kalaeloa Solar's inability to achieve the Commercial Operations Date by the Guaranteed Commercial Operations Date may cause Hawaiian Electric to not meet applicable requirements under the RPS Law. See Section 13)(a) of the PPA (Exhibit 1, page 30). Time is of the essence in the PPA. Kalaeloa Solar is required to achieve the "Commercial Operation Date" on or before 18 months from the earlier of the Waiver Agreement Date or the Non-appealable PUC Approval Order Date (see contract definitions section to the PPA), the date for that Construction Milestone specified in Appendix E to the PPA, subject to any allowed extension caused by Force Majeure of the time period as may be required pursuant to Section 13)(b) of the PPA and any applicable grace periods described in Section 13)(c). See Section 13)(a) ofthe PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 30).
If Kalaeloa Solar's failure to achieve the GCOD is not the result of Force Majeure, it is entitled to a grace period of ninety (90) days to cure its failure to perform. If the GCOD cannot be achieved within this ninety (90) day cure period, Kalaeloa Solar is allowed an additional sixty 2
(60) days (for a total of one hundred and fifty (150) days) to cure its failure and achieve the GCOD, provided that it promptly delivers to Hawaiian Electric a plan for achieving that date and it promptly and diligently executes that plan. Iffailure to meet the GCOD is the result o f Force Majeure, Kalaeloa Solar is entitled to a grace period following the GCOD up to a maximum of three hundred sixty-five (365) days from the GCOD to cure its failure to perform.
C. COMPETITIVE BIDDING FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY 1. HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC'S REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS This Agreement is submitted to the Commission as the first project resulting from Hawaiian Electric's Renewable Energy Request for Proposals under the Commission's Framework for Competitive Bidding. The Final Request for Proposals for Renewable Energy Projects, Island of Oahu, June 2008 ("RFP"), was issued to the public and submitted to the Commission in In Re Pub. Util. Comm'n, Docket No. 2007-0331 on June 19, 2008.
Hawaiian Electric sought proposals for the supply o f up to approximately 100 megawatts of long term (i.e. 20 years) renewable energy for the island of O ahu under a power purchase agreement, the terms of which would be negotiated between Hawaiian Electric and the seller(s).
The resources proposed were evaluated with respect to impacts to Hawaiian Electric's system, adherence to Hawaiian Electric's performance standards, and their ability to be installed within the preferred timeframe.
Hawaiian Electric utilized a multi-stage evaluation process to review and select proposals and to select the preferred resources. To proceed through each stage of the evaluation process, the bids were required to meet established criteria specified in the RFP. A summary of the evaluation process is described in the following sections.
3
The first step in the evaluation process was to compare each bid received against the bid eligibility criteria as specified in Section 4.2 of the RFP. All bids that passed were then compared against the threshold requirements specified in Section 4.3 of the RFP. The threshold requirements included demonstration of site control, experience of the bidder and or its partners in the development and operation of similar projects, a review o f each bid for risks related to variable interest entity treatment, and the bidder's agreement to post the credit and collateral requirements of the RFP. Bids that passed the eligibility and threshold evaluations were then subjected to an initial evaluation in accordance with Section 4.4 of the RFP.
The bids that passed the eligibility and threshold screening were then subjected to an Initial Evaluation which considered both pricing and non-pricing factors as explained in Section 4.4 of the RFP. The non-price evaluation examined factors such as development feasibility, operational viability, operating profile, and flexibility. The eligible proposals were ranked and scored for each o f the non-price evaluation criteria by evaluation team members corresponding to their respective areas of expertise.
The price evaluation was conducted in parallel with the non-price evaluation. A total cost assessment was prepared for each proposal that included the cost of energy and a cost of imputed debt. The levelized bid proposal cost was then determined and compared to the levelized avoided cost of the system. The net levelized $/MWh cost or benefit was then calculated and utilized in the evaluation.
The results of the initial price and non-price analysis were then compiled and the results provided a relative ranking and scoring of each of the bids. The bids that scored 4
highest were then placed on a short list consistent with Section 4.5 of the RFP. 1 Kalaeloa Solar (SunPower Corporation, Systems) was among these selected short listed bids due to its high ranking on both price and non-price factors.
The short listed bidders were notified of their selection and initial meetings were arranged to clarify their proposals and initiate the interconnection requirements study consistent with Rule 19 and final detailed evaluation process as provided in Section 4.6
of the RFP. The interconnection requirements studies utilized a portfolio approach where all short listed projects were assumed to be on the system in order to assess the overall impacts of these projects both on Hawaiian Electric's system as well as on each other.
In the course of this detailed evaluation, Hawaiian Electric identified potential reliability concerns associated with Kalaeloa Solar's project at the size as proposed. In order to evaluate these technical concerns, Hawaiian Electric determined that additional integration type studies should be performed. Since the amount of time required to complete these studies would directly delay any decision on being able to accept Kalaeloa Solar's project at the size as proposed, Kalaeloa Solar proposed revising their prolect size to 5 MW as a means to mitigate these technical concerns. Both parties agreed that this approach would allow the reduced sized project to proceed in parallel with the reliability studies being initiated by Hawaiian Electric and allow for real time evaluation of the operability of this technology with Hawaiian Electric's grid.
The detailed evaluation process included a risk assessment for each bid to examine the viability of each bid and included a sensitivity analysis o f the key factors 1 Hawaiian Electric filed a copy of the bids from the "Short List" proposals for the Company's Renewable Energy Request for Proposals in Docket No. 2007-0331 on July 28, 2010, with confidential and/or proprietary information subject to Protective Order No. 23875. dated December 6.2007.
5
that could influence project economics. The objective of this detailed evaluation process was to provide information to Hawaiian Electric to select bids with the greatest value consistent with the stated objectives and requirements in the RFP. The results of this detailed evaluation yielded the bids selected for the final award group. Kalaeloa Solar (SunPower Corporation, Systems) was selected to Hawaiian Electric's final award group due to the high ranking in the final evaluation.
During the course o f the final negotiations, Kalaeloa Solar notified Hawaiian Electric that they were unable to reach agreement on terms of a lease for their proposed site. As a result, Kalaeloa Solar proposed to relocate their project from the original site to a nearby subleased parcel located on land owned by the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. Because the new parcel was essentially a greenfield site, Kalaeloa Solar elected to revise their design to a ground mounted tracking system. Hawaiian Electric accepted this revision from Kalaeloa Solar on the basis that there was no significant change to the shortlisted bid, i.e. the project was still a 5 MW PV facility and the revised project and location would not materially alter the results of the previous bid evaluations. As an added measure, Hawaiian Electric requested the Independent Observer ("IO") review Hawaiian Electric's determination of accepting the revised Kalaeloa Solar proposal to be allowable by the RFP and Competitive Bidding Framework. The IO confirmed Hawaiian Electric's determination that accepting Kalaeloa Solar's revised site and design was reasonable and not inconsistent with the RFP or the Framework.
2. INDEPENDENT OBSERVER PARTICIPATION While not required by the Framework, Hawaiian Electric retained the services of an Independent Observer to assist in the development and monitoring of this competitive 6
solicitation. New Energy Opportunities was selected by Hawaiian Electric and approved by the Commission on October 9,2007, to serve in this capacity. The IO provided reports to the Commission on both the short list selection process and the final award group. In summary, the IO concluded in both reports that the Company's results were reasonable. The IO's report on Hawaiian Electric's bid evaluation and short list selection process is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.2 The IO report on Hawaiian Electric's selection of the final award group is attached hereto as Exhibit 43
D. ENERGY PRICING: THE PPA PRICES ARE REASONABLE 1. The pricing for this PPA is reasonable and in the interests of Hawaiian Electric's customers. During the negotiation process, Hawaiian Electric and Kalaeloa Solar agreed to the stepped pricing structure set forth at Appendix D and Table D-1 of the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 117 and 118). The levelized price is comparable to Hawaiian Electric's calculated avoided cost, comparable to a similar technology and sized purchase power agreement recently executed, and also comparable to Hawaiian Electric's proposed price for Feed-In Tariff Tier 3 projects.
2. Energy payments by Hawaiian Electric to Kalaeloa Solar under the PPA are based on a pricing structure and pricing level determined through the competitive bid process and a series ofproposals and negotiations between Hawaiian Electric and Kalaeloa Solar described 2 SM New Energy Opportunities. Inc.. "Report of the Independent Observer on Hawaiian Electric Company's Bid Evaluation and Short List Selection Process-Renewable Energy RFP." Docket No. 2007-0331 (Jan. 23. 2009). A portion of the Independent Observer's report contains confidential information provided by the bidders iii the competitive bidding process and disclosure of such confidential information could disadvantage Hawaiian Electric iii any future negotiations with bidders. power suppliers. contractors. and/or other vendors. The confidential information is protected pursuant to Protective Order No. 23875. dated December 6. 2007. Docket No. 2007-0331.
Pursuant to HAR § 6-61-47. the Commission may take official notice of such confidential portion by reference.
3 See New Energy Opportunities. Inc.. "Report of the Independent Observer on Hawaiian Electric Company's Selection of the Final Award Group-Renewable Energy RFP." Docket No. 2007-0331 (Nov. 13, 2009). A portion of the Independent Observer' s report contains confidential infonnation provided by the bidders in the competitive bidding process and disclosure of such confidential infonnation could disadvantage Hawaiian Electric in any future negotiations with bidders, power suppliers contractors and/or other vendors. The confidential information is protected pursuant to Protective Order No. 23875. dated December 6.2007. Docket No. 2007-0331. Pursuant to HAR § 6-61-47. the Commission may take official notice of such confidential portion by reference.
7
below and at Exhibit 8 to this application.
Kalaeloa Solar will sell to Hawaiian Electric, and Hawaiian Electric will purchase from Kalaeloa Solar, all of the "Actual Output" (see contract definitions section to the PPA) produced by the Facility and delivered to the Point of Interconnection, from the initial delivery of energy under the PPA through the end of the "Term", (see Section 2)(a) of the PPA and Appendix D to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 17 and 117))in accordance with the terms and conditions of the PPA.
The initial rate for the delivery of electric energy to Hawaiian Electric under the PPA is set forth at Appendix D, Section 1, o f the PPA. See Appendix D and Table D-1 to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 117 and 118).
Hawaiian Electric is obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to accept test energy that is delivered as part of the normal testing for generators (e.g., energy delivered to Hawaiian Electric during the Control System Acceptance Test but not during the Acceptance Test), provided that Kalaeloa Solar must use commercially reasonable efforts to coordinate such normal testing with Hawaiian Electric so as to minimize adverse impacts on Hawaiian Electric's System (see contract definitions section to the PPA) and operations. Hawaiian Electric is required to compensate Kalaeloa Solar for test energy at the rate set forth in Appendix D of the PPA. (Exhibitl, page 117).
Kalaeloa Solar intends to operate its Facility as a nonfossil fuel producer, as provided for and encouraged in Hawaii Revised Statutes (HRS) § 269-27.2:
The public utilities commission may direct public utilities that supply electricity to the public to arrange for the acquisition of and to acquire electricity generated from nonfossil fuel sources as is available from, and the producers are willing and able to make available to, the public utilities, and to employ and dispatch the nonfossil fuel generated electricity in a manner consistent with the availability thereof to maximize the reduction in consumption of fossil fuels in the generation of electricity to be provided to the public.
8
See HRS § 269-27.2(b) As further discussed at Exhibit 8, the rate payable by the public utility to the producer for the nonfossil fuel generated electricity supplied to the public utility has been agreed to between the public utility and the supplier. See HRS § 269-27.2(c). Hawaiian Electric has utilized a methodology that removes or significantly reduces any linkage between the price of fossil fuels and the rate for the nonfossil fuel generated electricity to potentially enable utility customers to share in the benefits of fuel cost savings resulting from the use o f nonfossil fuel generated electricity. See HRS § 269-27.2(c).
HRS § 269-27.2(c) mandates delinking renewable energy rates from the price of fossil fuels:
The rate payable by the public utility to the producer for the nonfossil fuel generated electricity supplied to the public utility shall be as agreed between the public utility and the supplier and as approved by the public utilities commission.
provided that in the event the public utility and the supplier fail to reach an agreement for a rate, the rate shall be as prescribed by the public utilities commission according to the powers and procedures provided in this chapter.
The commission's determination of the just and reasonable rate shall be accomplished bv establishing a methodology that removes or significantly reduces any linkage between the price of fossil fuels and the rate for the nonfossil fuel generated electricity to potentially enable utility customers to share in the benefits of fuel cost savings resulting from the use of nonfossil fuel generated electricity. As the commission deems appropriate, the just and reasonable rate for nonfossil fuel generated electricity supplied to the public utility by the producer may include mechanisms for reasonable and appropriate incremental adjustments, such as adjustments linked to consumer price indices for inflation or other acceptable adjustment mechanisms. [Emphasis added.] The Legislature explained that:
[Gliven the alarming rise and precipitous drop o f oil prices over the past year and a general lack of confidence in long-term fuel pricing forecasts, the regulatory standard of avoided cost has been difficult to define and has created barriers in the negotiations process for power purchase agreements, especially for clean energy products.
9
Therefore, the purpose o f this Act is to re focus the regulatory standard to a methodology that is just and reasonable by significantly reducing any linkages between the volatile prices of fossil fuels and the rate for nonfossil fuel generated electricity. This Act also potentially enables utility customers to share in the benefits ofprice stability and fuel cost savings resulting from the use of nonfossil fuel generated electricity.
Section 1, Act 50, SLH 2009.
The final pricing structure o f the PPA was determined through analysis of Kalaeloa Solar's submission of its bid proposal in conformance with the RFP and a subsequent series of proposals and negotiations between Kalaeloa Solar and Hawaiian Electric. See Exhibit 8. The negotiations, and Hawaiian Electric's determination that Kalaeloa Solar's pricing proposal was reasonable, took into account, among other things (1) competitive pricing provided in response to Hawaiian Electric's RFP; (2) Hawaiian Electric's desire for additional renewable energy resources; (3) the objective of delinking the pricing of Kalaeloa Solar's energy from fossil fuel prices; (4) the pricing of the proposal compared to Hawaiian Electric's estimated long-run avoided energy costs (taking into consideration uncertainties with respect to future oil prices);
and (5) comparability to a similar technology and sized purchase power agreement, recently executed, and (6) also comparability to cost of generation based pricing developed in Hawaiian Electric's Feed-In Tariffprogram in Docket No. 2008-0273.4
After completing its evaluation, Hawaiian Electric concluded that the proposed pricing structure and pricing level negotiated and agreed upon by the Parties, as set forth in Appendix D o f the PPA, are reasonable considering that (a) over the 20-year contract Term, the net present value ('NPV") of payments to Kalaeloa Solar are comparable to the NPV of Hawaiian Electric's 4 Hawaiian Electric also considered other pricing proposal information available to it which supports its conclusion that the pricing is not unreasonable. In the future, Hawaiian Electric intends to develop inforniation that considers the cost of developing and financing renewable energy projects, and will use such information in negotiating and structuring future pricing proposals.
10
total avoided costs based on the February 2010 fuel price forecast: (b) Kalaeloa Solar's initial energy pricing is within the range of Hawaiian Electric's filed avoided energy costs over the past year; (c) Kalaeloa Solar's pricing structure meets the requirement of HRS § 269-27.2(c) because there is no linkage between Kalaeloa Solar's energy price and Hawaiian Electric's cost of fossil fuels; (d) the fixed price structure is simple and will contribute to stabilizing Hawaiian Electric's overall energy prices; and (e) the pricing structure is comparable to the proposed Schedule FIT Tariff- Tier 3 - Oahu or Hawaiian Electric's calculation of avoided cost for such a facility. The information supporting the long-term avoided energy costs analysis and additional detailed discussion of Hawaiian Electric's evaluation and support of Kalaeloa Solar's pricing structure and pricing levels are found in Exhibit 8 to this Application, portions of which exhibit are or will be submitted under and subject to a protective order issued or to be issued in this proceeding.5
3. Pursuant to the PPA, Hawaiian Electric will purchase renewable energy from Kalaeloa Solar for a fixed price over a term of twenty (20) years. In addition to the monitoring of actual field data from the proposed Facility in order to appropriately characterize levelized cost value, the proposed Facility is expected to provide long-term value to ratepayers by acting as a renewable energy hedge against the uncertainty of future fossil fuel costs.
Hawaii Administrative Rules ("HAR") § 6-60-6(2) provides that:
No changes in fuel and purchased energy costs may be included in the fuel adjustment clause unless the contracts or prices for the purchase of such fuel or energy have been previously approved or filed with the [Clommission.
4. For the same reasons provided above, Hawaiian Electric also seeks Commission 5 A redacted version of Exhibit 8 (Confidential) entitled "Pricing Structure and Negotiations" is attached hereto.
(Pages 1,3,7,8. 10. 11, 21. 23 and 24 of 26 contain confidential and proprietary information and have been redacted.) A copy of the confidential pages of Exhibit 8 (Confidential) will be filed with the Commission pursuant to protective order, as the negotiations and negotiation strategies are confidential and proprietary information. and disclosure of this confidential infonnation could disadvantage Hawaiian Electric in its future negotiations for renewable energy.
11
approval to recover Hawaiian Electric's purchased energy charges and payments under the PPA through its ECAC, to the extent that the costs are not recovered in base rates, pursuant to HAR § 6-60-6 0 f the Commission's Rules Establishing Standards for Electric and Gas Utility Service in the State ofHawaii 5. Accordingly, in light of the above, Hawaiian Electric respectfully submits that the energy charges to be paid to Kalaeloa Solar are just and reasonable, and are consistent with HRS § 269-27.2, as amended, and the applicable provisions of HAR Chapter 6-74. For these reasons, Hawaiian Electric requests that the Commission find that the purchased energy charges to be paid by Hawaiian Electric pursuant to the PPA are reasonable.
E. THE PPA TERMS AND CONDITIONS ARE REASONABLE The specific terms and conditions of the PPA, summarized above, and provided in Exhibit 1 were negotiated by the Parties at arm's-length and contain indemnification, insurance and other provisions which will serve to protect Hawaiian Electric and its customers from certain risks associated with interconnecting with Kalaeloa Solar's Facility. Moreover, the terms and conditions of the PPA will not affect Hawaiian Electric's ability to provide electric service to its customers and are not discriminatory to other small power producers. For these reasons, Hawaiian Electric requests that (1) the Commission approve the PPA, (2) the Commission find that the purchased energy charges to be paid by Hawaiian Electric pursuant to the PPA are reasonable, and (3) the Comnission determine that the purchased power arrangements (e.g., terms and conditions) under the PPA, pursuant to which Hawaiian Electric purchases energy from Kalaeloa Solar, are prudent and in the public interest.
F. HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC'-OWNED INTERCONNECTION FACILITIES 1. Subject to the terms and conditions in Appendix C of the PPA, Hawaiian Electric 12
will construct (or may allow Kalaeloa Solar to construct, in whole or in part), own, operate and maintain the Interconnection Facilities on Hawaiian Electric's side of the Point of Interconnection, specifically, to interconnect Hawaiian Electric's System with the Facility at 46
kV, up to the Point o f Interconnection. Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities, for which Kalaeloa Solar has agreed to pay in accordance with Section 1.(b) of Appendix C of the PPA, include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) overhead 46 kV line extension: (ii) Direct Transfer Trip and Dead Line Check equipment: (iii) supervisory control and communications equipment (including but not limited to, SCADA/RTU) and space for Hawaiian Electric-owned SM2 RTU unit: (iv) relaying/protection upgrades; (v) primary and backup revenue metering equipment and switches: (vi) fiber communication equipment and link between Hawaiian Electric's Kahe Switching Station and Kalaeloa Solar's Facility: (vii) power quality meter and associated communication equipment and service at Kalaeloa Solar's Facility; (viii) lockout relays and space for Hawaiian Electric-owned relay panel housing lockout relays and associated equipment and (ix) any additional Interconnection Facilities needed to be installed as a result of any supplemental studies and any final determination o f the Facility switching station site (the final design o f the Facility must enable Hawaiian Electric to complete the Interconnection Facilities and comply with Good Engineering and Operating Practices, considering Hawaiian Electric's isolated island setting). See Section 1.(b) ofAppendix C to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 107-109).
2. All such Interconnection Facilities are required to be the property of Hawaiian Electric. See Section 4) of the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 21). Where any Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities are to be located on the Site of the Facility, Kalaeloa Solar is obligated to provide, at no expense to Hawaiian Electric, a location and access acceptable to Hawaiian 13
Electric for all such facilities. In addition, Kalaeloa Solar has agreed to provide a reliable 48VDC source and 48VDC distribution panel to power Hawaiian Electric's equipment located at Kalaeloa Solar's Facility for a minimum 12-hour backup period. See Section 1.b.(3)(i) of Appendix B to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 80-81).
3. Kalaeloa Solar is required to pay Hawaiian Electric for the cost to design, engineer, and construct Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities. See Section 2.(a) of Appendix C to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 109-111). This PPA does not utilize a "price adder" mechanism. Specifically, Kalaeloa Solar initially pays to Hawaiian Electric the "Total Estimated Interconnection Cost" in accordance with the schedule set forth in Appendix C, Section 2.(b) of the PPA (Exhibit 1, pages 111-112), (see contract definitions section to the PPA) which is comprised o f the estimated costs of (i) acquiring and installing such Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities. (ii) the engineering and design work (including but not limited to work done by Hawaiian Electric, Hawaiian Electric affiliates, and contracted engineers and designers) associated with (a) developing such Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities, and (b) reviewing and specifying those portions of Kalaeloa Solar's Facility which allow the interconnected operations described in Appendix B of the PPA: and (iii) conducting the Acceptance Test and Control System Acceptance Test. See Section 2.(a)(1) of Appendix C to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 109-110). The Total Estimated Interconnection Cost (as defined in Appendix C ofthe PPA) is $ 1,857,001. See Section 2.(a)(3) of Appendix C to the PPA.
(Exhibit 1, pages 1 10-111). The Total Actual Interconnection Cost (the actual cost of items (i) through (iii) above), together with the cost of the IRS, comprise the Total Interconnection Cost.
See Section 2.(a) ofAppendix C to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 109-110). Applicable taxes will be added to the Total Estimated Interconnection Cost and the Total Actual Interconnection Cost.
14
Once the Total Actual Interconnection Cost is known, a final accounting will occur pursuant to Appendix C, Section 2.(c) of the PPA (Exhibit 1, page 112) to true-up Kalaeloa Solar's payments to equal the Total Actual Interconnection Cost.
G. HAWAII ENERGY POLICY 1. Kalaeloa Solar's project will help Hawaiian Electric meet the Hawaii Energy Policy goals by reducing Hawaiian Electric's reliance on fossil fuels and implementing additional renewable energy resources. It is estimated that the renewable energy supplied by Kalaeloa Solar's project will save approximately 17,000 barrels o f fuel oil per year.
2. Hawaii's current reliance on imported fossil fuels, without any real opportunity for hedging against dramatic increases in oil prices, is untenable from an economic and security standpoint. In order to achieve these aggressive Renewable Energy Portfolio Standards ("RPS") goals, Hawaiian Electric must take advantage o f solar power, which presents a promising opportunity to significantly advance the development and use of renewable energy for O'ahu.
3. The "Hawaii State Plan," which includes the overall theme. goals, objectives, policies, priority guidelines, and implementation mechanisms established in HRS Chapter 226, requires that planning for the State's facility systems with regard to energy is to be directed towards the achievement of:
a. Dependable, efficient. and economical statewide energy systems capable o f supporting the needs of the people.
b. Increased energy self-sufficiency;
c. Greater energy security in the face of threats to Hawaii's energy supplies and systems; and d. Reduction, avoidance, or sequestration of greenhouse gas emissions from energy supply and use.
See HRS § 226-18.
The objectives in the area of alternate and renewable energy are to promote 15
commercialization of Hawaii's sustainable energy resources and technologies to reduce the State's high dependence on imported oil, increase local economic development, and reduce the potential negative economic impacts of oil price fluctuations.
4. In support of these objectives, the Hawaii State Legislature enacted RPS goals in 2001, and has continued to add to the requirements of Hawaii's RPS law in subsequent legislative sessions. HRS § 269-92(a), as amended by Act 162 (2006), formerly provided that each electric utility Company6 that sells electricity for consumption in Hawaii will establish a RPS of:
(1) 10% of its net electricity sales by December 31,2010;
(2) 15% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2015; and (3) 20% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2020.
5. HRS § 269-91 defines "renewable portfolio standard" to mean "the percentage of electrical energy sales that is represented by renewable electrical energy." HRS § 269-92(b)(1) formerly required that at least 50% of the RPS be met by electrical energy generated using renewable energy as the source.
6. In the 2009 legislative session, the Legislature enacted and the Governor subsequently signed Act 155, which adds to or amends various portions of the HRS related to clean energy. Act 155 states: "Attaining independence from Hawaii's detrimental reliance on fossil fuels has been a longstanding objective for the State." "Hawaii is the state most dependent on petroleum for its energy needs. It pays the highest electricity prices in the United States, and its gasoline costs are among the highest in the country." As a result "Reducing our oil dependence and the consequent price volatility and attaining energy security are critical." 6 HRS § 269-93 provides: "An electric utility company and its electric utility affiliates inay aggregate their renewable portfolios in order to achieve the renewable portfolio standard." 16
7. Act 155, among other things, increases electric utilities' 2020 RPS requirement from 20% to 25%, and adds a new 40% requirement for the year 2030. In addition, whereas prior to January 1,2015, only 50% of a utility's RPS needed to be met by "electrical generation using renewable energy as the source", after January 1, 2015, a utility's entire RPS will need to be met by renewable generation, and "electrical energy savings" (i.e., energy efficiency) will no longer count toward RPS requirements.
II. HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC Hawaiian Electric, whose principal place o f business and executive offices are located at 900 Richards Street, Honolulu, Hawai i 96813, is a corporation duly organized under the laws of the Kingdom of Hawaii on or about October 13, 1891, and now exists under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Hawaii. Hawaiian Electric is an operating public utility engaged in the production, transmission, distribution, purchase and sale of electric energy on the island of Oahu.
III.
KALAELOA SOLAR OWNERSHIP AND QUALIFICATION 1. Kalaeloa Solar is a Delaware limited liability company registered to do business in Hawaii and is a wholly owned subsidiary of SunPower Corporation, Systems, a Delaware corporation. Kalaeloa Solar's principal place ofbusiness is 1414 Harbour Way South, Richmond, California 94804. A brief description of Kalaeloa Solar and its affiliates is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.
2. Kalaeloa Solar represents and warrants that (i) as of the Effective Date, February 18,2011, it is an entity in good standing with the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs of the State of Hawaii and (ii) any and all energy delivered by Kalaeloa Solar to Hawaiian Electric from or through Kalaeloa Solar's Facility throughout the term of the PPA 17
meets the definition of"renewable electrical energy" or "renewable energy" as defined under HRS § 269-91 as ofthe Effective Date ofthis PPA. See Section 22)(b) of the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 44). A copy of Kalaleloa Solar's Certificate of Good Standing dated January 11,2011 is attached at Exhibit 2 to this application.
ITC CORRESPONDENCE AND COMMUNICATIONS Pleadings. correspondence, and notices regarding this Application should be directed to the following:
Dean K. Matsuura Manager, Regulatory Affairs Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc.
P.O. Box 2750
Honolulu, Hawaii 96840
Copies o f such correspondence and communications should be sent to:
Shah J. Bento, Esq.
Law Office of Shah J. Bento, LLLC P.O. Box 4110
Honolulu, Hawai'i 96812
Correspondence and communications from the Commission in regard to this Application should be addressed to Dean K. Matsuura as listed above.
V. THE KALAELOA SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC ENERGY FACILITY A. SITE As set forth above, the proposed Facility will be located at Kalaeloa, Ewa District, Kapolei, O'ahu, State of Hawaii as further described in Appendix A of the PPA. The approximate location of the Facility is shown on the map attached to this Application as Exhibit 5. The Kalaeloa project site is located at TMKNo. (1) 9-1-13:28 and 38 / Kalaeloa, Oahu.
Kalaeloa Solar will sublease the site from an affiliate formed to enter into a master lease with the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands for the specific purpose of locating the Facility. (Exhibit 18
2, page 1) The lease term will cover the life of the PPA. 20.5 to 21 years total. The land is zoned "F-1, Military-Federal".
B. PHOTOVOLTAIC ENERGY FACILITY 1. 5 MW Photovoltaic Energy Facility Pursuant to the PPA, Kalaeloa Solar will develop, design, construct, own, operate, and maintain the solar photovoltaic energy facility to produce an estimated 5.0 MW net electrical output. See Section 5.b. of Appendix A to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 63-64). Kalaeloa Solar intends for its parent company, SunPower Corporation, Systems, to operate the Facility. A copy o f the agreement between Kalaeloa Solar and the operator will be provided to Hawaiian Electric no later than 60 days after receipt of the Non-Appealable PUC Approval Order. The agreement must establish the scope of operations by the operator and respective rights o f Kalaeloa Solar and the operator with respect to the sale o f electric energy. Kalaeloa Solar must also provide a certificate warranting that the operator is a company in good standing with the Hawaii Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs. See contract definitions section ofthe PPA and Appendix A, Section 2 of the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 63) 2. Allowed Capacity The net instantaneous MW output from the Facility may not exceed the "Allowed Capacity" of 5,000 kW as specified in Appendix A of the PPA. See Section 5.e. of Appendix A to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 64).
3. Photovoltaic Modules and Inverters The Facility produces electricity using solar photovoltaic modules and inverters. The Facility will generate dc electric energy using 17,784 photovoltaic modules, which will be converted to ac energy using individual inverters with rated capacity of 100-135kVA (the 19
inverter specifications to be determined and provided at a later date by Kalaeloa Solar and will be subject to the reasonable approval of Hawaiian Electric). See Section 5.b. of Appendix A, and Section 1.b.(2) ofAppendix B to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 63-64 and pages 76-78, respectively).
4. Other Equipment The Facility will step the inverter output up to 46 kV using 34.5/19.9 kV:265/460 V Generator Step-Up ("GSU") transformers (with further specifications to be determined and provided at a later date by Kalaeloa Solar subject to reasonable approval by Hawaiian Electric):
and a single 4/5 MVA, 46:34.5 kV transformer. The Facility will feed AC electric energy to Hawaiian Electric via an extension of Hawaiian Electric's existing Kahe-Standard Oil No. 2 46
kV feeder, i.e. overhead (approximately 2,250 feet) to a location proposed by Kalaeloa Solar, near or in its Facility (TMK: 9-1-013:28) from Roosevelt Road. The Facility switching station will include a 72.5 kV, 1200 A circuit breaker, and metering and protection as outlined below.
See Section 1.(b) ofAppendix C to the PPA (Exhibit 1, page 107. see also Section 5.b. of Appendix A, and Section 1.b.(2) of Appendix B to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 63-64 and pages 76-78, respectively).
5. Metering Hawaiian Electric will purchase and own meters suitable for Hawaiian Electric to measure the net energy output from Kalaeloa Solar' s photovoltaic energy facility in kilowatts and kilowatthours on a time-of-day basis and of reactive power flow in kilovar hours. The metering point will be at the Point of Interconnection. See Section 10)(a) of the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 26).
6. Single-line Diagram, Relay List and Trip Scheme 20
A preliminary single-line diagram and relay list, relay settings, and trip scheme of the Facility are attached to the PPA as Exhibit B-1 (Single-Line Drawing) and Exhibit B-2 (Relay List and Trip Scheme). A final single-line drawing, relay list and trip scheme of the Facility will, after having obtained prior written consent from Hawaiian Electric, be labeled "Final" Exhibit B-1 and Exhibit B-2 and attached to this Agreement and made a part hereof on the Commercial Operations Date. An updated final single-line drawing showing any changes made after the Commercial Operations Date will be provided to Hawaiian Electric within thirty (30) Days after the In-Service Date and be made part of the Agreement. The single-line diagrams will expressly identify the Point of Interconnection of the Facility to Hawaiian Electric's System.
Kalaeloa Solar agrees that no material changes or additions to the Facility as reflected in the final single-line diagram, relay list and trip scheme will be made without Kalaeloa Solar first having obtained prior written consent from Hawaiian Electric if such material changes or additions could reasonably have an adverse impact on the performance of the Facility. See Section 1.a. of Appendix B to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 76).
7. Design of the Photovoltaic Energy Facility In general, Kalaeloa Solar is responsible for the design of its photovoltaic energy facility.
If any changes in or additions to Kalaeloa Solar's Facility, records and operating procedures are required by Hawaiian Electric, Hawaiian Electric will specify such changes or additions to Kalaeloa Solar in writing, and, except in the case of an emergency, Kalaeloa Solar will have the opportunity to review and comment upon any such changes or additions in advance. See Section 1.a. of Appendix B to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 76).
21
8. Permits Kalaeloa Solar is responsible for the acquisition of all approvals and permits required for the construction and operation of its Facility, including but not limited to rights-of-way, easements or leases. See Section 11)(a) of the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 27) VI. TERM A. TERM 1. Term of PPA Subject to Section 12) of the PPA, the Term of the PPA commences on the E ffective Date o f the PPA and remains in effect for an initial term of twenty (20) Contract Years following the Commercial Operations Date and continues thereafter until terminated by either party as provided in the PPA. See Section 12)(a) of the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 28). Either party may terminate the PPA at any time after the end of the Initial Term upon not less than one hundred eighty (180) Days notice to the other party. The Annual Contract Energy and the Contract Price in effect at the end of the Initial Term remains in effect during any Extension Term until terminated by either party as provided under the PPA.
2. PTIC Approval Order Upon the Effective Date o f the PPA, the Parties are required to use their reasonable efforts to obtain a PUC Approval Order satisfactory to the Parties. See Section 12)(c) of the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 28-29). A satisfactory PUC Approval Order includes, at a minimum, the following: authorization for the purchased energy charges to be paid by Hawaiian Electric to Kalaeloa Solar under the PPA (and related revenue taxes) to be included in Hawaiian Electric's ECAC (or equivalent), for the Term of this PPA. If the satis factory PUC Approval Order is not obtained within twelve (12) months of the PUC Submittal Date, (see contract definitions section 22
to the PPA) or within a longer period as Hawaiian Electric and Kalaeloa Solar may agree to by a written agreement, Hawaiian Electric or Kalaeloa Solar may. by written notice delivered within thirty (30) days of such date, declare the PPA null and void.
3. PITC Approval Order Appealed If the PUC Approval Order is appealed, the parties will meet within six months of the PUC Approval Order Date and decide whether to waive the requirement of obtaining a satisfactory Non-appealable PUC Approval Order. Neither party is required to agree to such a Waiver Agreement (see contract definitions section of the PPA). I f the parties enter into a Waiver Agreement, Kalaeloa Solar has agreed that it will proceed with its performance solely at its own risk. Furthermore, if the parties conclude a Waiver Agreement, the provisions of the PPA that would othenvise become effective upon obtaining a satisfactory Non-appealable PUC Approval Order will become effective as of the date of the Waiver Agreement Date.
4. Termination Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, the PPA may be terminated as provided iii the PPA at any time upon the occurrence of any condition described in Section 15 (Event of Default).
B. ACCEPTANCE TEST An Acceptance Test, as defined in the "Definitions" section and referenced in Appendix B (Facility Owned by Seller) of the PPA. means a test conducted by Kalaeloa Solar and, at Hawaiian Electric's option, witnessed by Hawaiian Electric, within thirty (30) Days of completion of all Interconnection Facilities and in accordance with criteria determined by Hawaiian Electric, of Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities (see contract definitions section to the PPA) and the interconnection portion of Kalaeloa Solar's Facility to 23
determine conformance with Section 3) and Appendix C and Good Engineering and Operating Practices, considering Hawaiian Electric's isolated island setting. Successful completion ofthe Acceptance Test to Hawaiian Electric's satisfaction is a condition precedent for the performance o f the Control System Acceptance Test and the Commercial Operation Date. No energy will be delivered from Kalaeloa Solar to Hawaiian Electric during the Acceptance Test. No later than fifteen (15) Business Days prior to conducting the Acceptance Test, Hawaiian Electric and Kalaeloa Solar are obligated to agree on a written protocol setting out the detailed procedure and criteria for passing the Acceptance Test. Within ten (10) Business Days of successful completion of the Acceptance Test, Hawaiian Electric is required to noti fy Kalaeloa Solar in writing that the Acceptance Test has been passed and the date upon which the Acceptance Test was passed.
L.
CONTROL SYSTEM ACCEPTANCE TEST 1. The Control System Acceptance Test, as defined in the "Definitions" section and referenced in Appendix B (Facility Owned by Seller) of the PPA, means a test or tests performed on the centralized control system and Curtailment Control Interface of Kalaeloa Solar's Facility, consisting of a functional demonstration of the equipment through the successful completion of such test to Hawaiian Electric's satisfaction, and conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 1.h. o f Appendix B to the PPA.
2. Following the successful completion of the Acceptance Test, the Control System Acceptance Test(s) are to be conducted. See Section 1.h. of Appendix B to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 84).
D. FAILURE TO ACHIEVE COMMERCIAL OPERATION; LIQUIDATED DAMAGES Following the applicable cure period(s). if GCOD has still not been achieved, Hawaiian 24
Electric has the right to collect. and Kalaeloa Solar is obligated to pay, liquidated damages in the amount of $167 per MW multiplied by the Contract Capacity for each Day ("Daily Delay Damages") up to a maximum amount of $150,000 as set forth in Section 13)(f) of the PPA.
Hawaiian Electric also has the right to collect Termination Damages, which are calculated by multiplying the Allowed Capacity by $30 per kW in accordance with Section 16 of the PPA.
The Parties have agreed that the damages Hawaiian Electric would incur due to early termination would be difficult or impossible to predict with certainty and that the specified Termination Damages are an appropriate approximation of such damages. See Section 16)(c) of the PPA.
(Exhibit 1, page 38).
VII. INTERCONNECTION A. INTERCONNECTION OF KALAELOA SOLAR'S PHOTOVOLTAIC ENERGY FACILITY TO HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC'S SYSTEM 1. Under the PPA, Kalaeloa Solar is required to furnish, install, operate and maintain the Facility including breakers, relays, switches, synchronizing equipment, monitoring equipment and control and protective devices designated by Hawaiian Electric as suitable for parallel operation of the Facility with Hawaiian Electric's System. The Facility must be accessible at all times to authorized Hawaiian Electric personnel including 24 hour vehicle access to Hawaiian Electric-owned poles, switches, and 46 kV overhead conductors. See Section 1.b.(1) of Appendix B to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 76) 2. The net instantaneous MW output from the Facility is not permitted under the PPA to exceed the Allowed Capacity specified in Appendix A o f the PPA. Hawaiian Electric may take appropriate action to limit the Allowed Capacity to the extent provided for under the PPA. See Section 3)(b) ofthe PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 20).
3. Kalaeloa Solar has agreed to furnish space at no expense to Hawaiian Electric for 25
those Interconnection Facilities required to be placed at the Facility/Site, as well as easements for and rights of access to any Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities located on the Site or at the Facility. See Section 1.(a) of Appendix C to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 107) Kalaeloa Solar must also furnish, install, operate, and maintain Kalaeloa Solar's Facility including breakers, relays, switches, synchronizing equipment, monitoring equipment and control and protective devices designated by Hawaiian Electric as suitable for parallel operation of Kalaeloa Solar's Facility with Hawaiian Electric's System, including such equipment, records and operating procedures as are more fully described in Appendix B of the PPA. See Section 1.b. of Appendix B to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 76).
4. The Point o f Interconnection is shown on the single-line drawing, provided by Kalaeloa Solar and reviewed by Hawaiian Electric, which is attached as Exhibit B-1 to Appendix B, and required under Section 1.a. of Appendix B of the PPA. The Point of Interconnection will be at the voltage level of Hawaiian Electric's System. If it is necessary to step up the voltage at which Kalaeloa Solar's energy is delivered to Hawaiian Electric's System, the Point of Interconnection will be on the high voltage side of the step-up trans former. See generally Section 1.a. and 1.b. of Appendix B to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 76-81).
B. INTERCONNECTION REQUIREMENTS STUDY 1. An "Interconnection Requirements Study" ("IRS") (see contract definitions section to the PPA) was required to be performed at Kalaeloa Solar's expense. A copy ofthe "IRS Letter Agreement" dated March 13,2009, is attached hereto as Exhibit 6.7 The primary purposes of the IRS are to: (a) identify the system requirements to integrate the Facility with 7 Exhibit 6 has been redacted in its entirety. It consists of the executed "Interconnection Requirements Study Agreement for SunPower Corporation" (IRS Letter Agreement) and pages 1 through 4 thereof (which includes the terms. conditions and signature page of the IRS Letter Agreement. The unredacted Exhibit 6 will be provided to the Commission under a protective order.
26
Hawaiian Electric's system, (b) evaluate the steady state and dynamic impacts to Hawaiian Electric's system of the Proposed Facility, and (c) develop performance requirements for the Facility, in each case taking into account, as appropriate, that Hawaiian Electric's system will continue to evolve and that the integration of the Facility should be accomplished in a manner that does not compromise the integration of future generation resources. See generally Exhibit 6, page 1, and Exhibit 7.
2. On July 2,2010, on behalf of Hawaiian Electric, Black & Veatch Corporation ("Black & Veatch") issued its IRS entitled "Renewable Energy RFP Interconnection Requirements Study - SunPower Corporation" ("IRS").8
3. In summary, the Kalaeloa Solar project will be interconnected to the Hawaiian Electric system at 46 kV along the Kahe-Standard Oil No. 2 circuit. Black & Veatch conducted power flow, short circuit, and dynamic simulations to analyze the impact that the Kalaeloa Solar project would have on the existing Hawaiian Electric system. See Exhibit 7.
C. KALAELOA SOLAR'S PROVISION OF SERVICE AND/OR MATERIAL FOR SPECIFIED HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC-OWNED INTERCONNECTION FACILITIES 1. Kalaeloa Solar will transfer ownership o f Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities to the extent such facilities were designed and constructed by Kalaeloa Solar and/or its Contractors, free and clear of liens and encumbrances, on the Transfer Date (see contract definitions section to the PPA). See Section 7 of Appendix C to the PPA, (Exhibit 1, pages 115-116).
2. Kalaeloa Solar will also obtain all required approvals and permits required to 8 Exhibit 7 has been redacted in its entirety. It consists of the cover sheet. Table of Contents. and pages 1 through 105 (which includes the Executive Summary. Conclusions and Recommendations) of the IRS. The unredacted Exhibit 7 will be provided to the Commission under a protective order.
27
construct, own, operate and maintain Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities. See Appendix C, Section 8 of the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 116). Kalaeloa Solar is in the process of negotiating the easements for the 46 kV overhead route. Under the PPA, Kalaeloa Solar will also obtain all easements, rights o f way, licenses and leases on the Site of the Facility and any other affected property, which are required to construct, maintain and operate Hawaiian Electric-
owned Interconnection Facilities. See Section 9) of Appendix C to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 116).
D. PAYMENT OF INTERCONNECTION COSTS In addition to all amounts payable to Hawaiian Electric by Kalaeloa Solar pursuant to Appendix C of the PPA, Kalaeloa Solar is required to pay to Hawaiian Electric a monthly metering charge o f $25.00 per month which is in addition to any charges due Hawaiian Electric pursuant to the applicable rate schedule pursuant to Section 2)(1) of the PPA. See Section 7) of the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 23). Kalaeloa Solar is also required to obtain an Irrevocable Standby Letter of Credit with no Documentary Requirement ("Standby Letter o f Credit") Cor such other form of security as is agreed to by Hawaiian Electric in writing) to ensure that Hawaiian Electric is paid by Kalaeloa Solar for Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities to be provided and/or constructed by Hawaiian Electric as described in Section 2 of Appendix C of the PPA.
Requirements for the Standby Letter o f Credit are set forth in Section 5 of Appendix C o f the PPA. See Section 5 of Appendix C to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 113-114).
The list of Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities, and engineering and testing costs for Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities, for which Kalaeloa Solar agrees to pay in accordance with Section 2 of Appendix C o f the PPA, are subject to revision if:
(a) before approving the PPA, the Commission approves a power purchase agreement for 28
another non-Hawaiian Electric-owned electric generating facility ("Second NUG Contract") to supply energy to Hawaiian Electric, using the same line to which the Facility is to be connected, or (b) the line to which the Facility is to be connected and/or the related transformer(s) need(s) to be upgraded and/or replaced as a result of the PPA and a Second NUG Contract, and the Commission, in approving the PPA, determines that Kalaeloa Solar should pay for all or part of the cost of the upgrade and/or replacement. See Section 1.(b) ofAppendix C to the PPA.
(Exhibit 1, pages 107-109).
The PPA allows Hawaiian Electric to bill Kalaeloa Solar monthly for any costs incurred in operating, maintaining and replacing (to the extent not covered by insurance) Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities. Hawaiian Electric's costs are to be determined on the basis of, but are not limited to, direct payroll, material costs, applicable overheads at the time incurred, consulting fees and applicable taxes. Kalaeloa Solar must, within thirty (30) days after the billing date, reimburse Hawaiian Electric for the monthly billed operation and maintenance charges. See Section 3 ofAppendix C to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 113).
Hawaiian Electric will bill Kalaeloa Solar for any costs incurred in relocating Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities in the event that Kalaeloa Solar's land rights contain a relocation clause and such clause is exercised or if Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities must be relocated for any other reason not caused by Hawaiian Electric. Kalaeloa Solar is required, within thirty (30) days after the billing date, to reimburse Hawaiian Electric for the billed relocation charges. See Section 4 of Appendix C to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, page 113).
E. SITE RESTORATION After termination of the PPA. or if applicable, when Kalaeloa Solar's Facility ceases operations as set forth in Section 6.(b) of Appendix C of the PPA, Kalaeloa Solar is required, at 29
its expense, to remove all (1) Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities from the Site, and (2) Kalaeloa Solar-owned Interconnection Facilities designated by Hawaiian Electric:
provided, however, that Hawaiian Electric may elect to have Hawaiian Electric rather than Kalaeloa Solar remove all or part of the designated Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities and/or designated Kalaeloa Solar-owned Interconnection Facilities because of operational concerns over the removal of such Interconnection Facilities, in which case Kalaeloa Solar will reimburse Hawaiian Electric for its reasonable costs to remove Hawaiian Electric-
owned Interconnection Facilities and/or Kalaeloa Solar-owned Interconnection Facilities. See Section 6 ofAppendix C to the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 1 14-115). Notwithstanding any other provision in the PPA, ifpursuant to any arrangement then permitted under applicable law Kalaeloa Solar's Facility continues to operate and generate energy following the termination of the PPA, Kalaeloa Solar will not be required to remove any Interconnection Facilities necessary to continue its operations until such time as Kalaeloa Solar's Facility permanently ceases to generate energy pursuant to applicable law. See Section 6.(b) of Appendix C to the PPA.
(Exhibit 1, pages 1 14-115). Nothing in the foregoing grants Kalaeloa Solar any right to use Hawaiian Electric-owned Interconnection Facilities following the termination o f the PPA and, to the extent Kalaeloa Solar continues to operate Kalaeloa Solar's Facility and utilize any Interconnection Facilities following the termination o f the PPA, Kalaeloa Solar has agreed to indemnify, defend and hold Hawaiian Electric harmless, as more fully set forth in the PPA at Section 6.(b) of Appendix C.
VIII. DELIVERY OF AS-AVAILABLE ENERGY A. INTRODUCTION The PPA is for as-available energy pursuant to which Hawaiian Electric will purchase the 30
energy made available to the Hawaiian Electric system in accordance with the terms and conditions of the PPA, subject to Hawaiian Electric's rights in the PPA to curtail the output of the Facility for reasons such as excess energy and to disconnect the Facility.
B. NORMAL CURTAILMENT PROVISIONS 1. Under Section 8) of the PPA, Hawaiian Electric may require Kalaeloa Solar to temporarily curtail, interrupt or reduce deliveries of energy from the Facility when necessary:
(1) in order for Hawaiian Electric to construct, install, maintain, repair, replace, remove, investigate, test or inspect any of its equipment or any part of Hawaiian Electric's System (see Section 8)(a) of the PPA (Exhibit 1, pages 23-24)) including, but not limited to, accommodating the installation and/or acceptance test of non-utility-owned facilities to Hawaiian Electric's System: (2) if Hawaiian Electric determines that curtailment, interruption or reduction is necessary because of Hawaiian Electric's System emergency, "Forced Outage", (see contract definitions section to the PPA) or operating conditions on Hawaiian Electric's System; (3) if Hawaiian Electric is unable to accept deliveries o f energy due to light loading conditions (see Section 8)(d) of the PPA (Exhibit 1, pages 24-25)); or (4) if either the Facility does not operate in compliance with Good Engineering and Operating Practices, considering Hawaiian Electric's isolated island setting, or acceptance of energy from Kalaeloa Solar by Hawaiian Electric would require Hawaiian Electric to operate its system outside of Good Engineering and Operating Practices. considering Hawaiian Electric's isolated island setting, which includes. but is not limited to, excessive system frequency fluctuations or excessive voltage deviations, and any situation that Hawaiian Electric's System Operator (see contract definitions section to the PPA) determines, at his or her sole discretion using Good Engineering and Operating Practices considering Hawaiian Electric's isolated island setting, could place the reliability of Hawaiian 31
Electric's System in jeopardy. See Section 8)(a) of the PPA. (Exhibit 1, pages 23-24).
2. In the event that Hawaiian Electric initiates a "Curtailment Event" pursuant to Section 8)(a), Hawaiian Electric is not obligated to accept or pay for any energy from Kalaeloa Solar except for the energy that Hawaiian Electric notifies Kalaeloa Solar that it is able to take during the duration o f this period.
3. Pursuant to Section 8)(b) of the PPA, Hawaiian Electric is not required to purchase energy during any period during which, due to operational circumstances, purchases from Kalaeloa Solar will result in costs greater than those which Hawaiian Electric would incur if it did not make those purchases, but instead generated an equivalent amount of energy itself.